For this first exercise of the chapter,
we're gonna write two functions.
One that computes the tax based on a gross
amount.
And the second function will calculate a
net
pay using the tax function we write
previously.
So, let's get started.
We're gonna call this program
chap11ex1.py.
So, the first thing we're going to do is
write our tax function.
And in comments, I'm going to show you the
tax table.
$0 through $240, the percentage tax is 0%.
$241 through $480, the tax rate is 15%.
And then $481 and greater, the tax rate is
28%.
So, using that table, we can write the
following function.
We're gonna call our function tax.
Our parameter will be amount.
And then we just write an if elif
statement.
If amount is less than or equal to $240.
Return 0, elif amount greater than 240 and
amount less than or equal to $480,
return amount times 0.15 for the 15%.
Else return amount times 0.28 for the
taxed amount.
So, let's write a quick program just to
test the function.
We'll say print enter amount, amount
equals int input.
And then we'll say print, The tax is, plus
string tax amount and we will do
it on a couple of even numbers so you can
get an idea how the function works.
So, chap11ex1.py, so we have an error,
very good, let's take a look, line 15.
Usually, when an error like this occurs,
it's usually
because you didn't close all your
parenthesis, just like that.
And again, I leave these errors in because
you're
going to be making the same types of
mistakes.
So, it helps to be able to see how I fix
them to aid you in your debugging efforts.
Let's run it again.
There it is.
So, let's say the amount is 100 and the
tax is 0.
Run it again.
And say, the amount is 300 and the tax is
45.
That's 15%.
That's right.
Let's run it one more time.
1,000 and the tax is $280.
That's 28%.
So, that's right.
So, let's go back to our program.
Now we're ready to add the net pay
function.
So, for net pay, our parameter will be the
gross pay and we'll simply return the
gross pay minus the amount they were taxed
on the gross pay.
We're not taking into consideration any
other sort of deductions or anything.
Net is based strictly on how much you're
taxed.
Let's write a new program.
I'll leave this one in.
And we'll say print enter gross pay.
We'll call it gp is equal int input.
Then we'll say, print Net pay is, plus net
pay, and we're gonna have to make that a
string.
That
time, we have the right number of
parentheses.
So, let's Exit and Save.
Let's
clear the screen.
So, let's say it's $1,000, and the net pay
is 720 and that's
right because it would've been $280 minus
1,000 to get 720.
Let's run it one more time, let's take
500, and that's correct.
Again, because of the 28%, that would be
140.
Let's look at the program one more time.
So, our tax function uses an if elif to
determine and return
the tax on a given amount, and our net pay
function uses
the tax function to determine net pay
based on a user's gross pay.
So, that wraps up this first exercise of
the chapter and now we're ready to
move to the second exercise where we're
going
to revisit computing the factorial of a
number.